Sample Final Test
Defining type
Define the type AIRPORT based on a structure having the following fields:

name: name of the airport (a string having at most 30 characters, type: char[])
city: name of the city (a string having at most 30 characters, type: char[])
runways: number of runways (a positive integer, type: int)
time: transfer time (a positive integer, type: int)
Reading File
Open and read the CSV file which name is passed as the first command-line argument! Each line represents a single AIRPORT element in the following format:

<name>;<city>;<runways>;<time>

Notes:

Solve the exercise in function main().
The end of the file is denoted by EOF.
It is guaranteed that the file contains at least 1 and at most 20 lines; allocate a suitable array.
Each line contains at most 100 characters.
The file uses semicolons ; as the delimiter.
Print an error message and exit with status code 1 if the command-line argument is not present.
Print an error message and exit with status code 2 if the file does not exist.
Sorting elements
Sort the array using built-in function qsort(), and the following stages:

number of runways (descending)
transfer time (descending)
name (ascending)
Notes:

Invoke function qsort() in function main().
Writing file
Open and write the CSV file, which name is passed as the second command-line argument and write the sorted sequence of records to the file!

Notes:

Solve the exercise in function main().
The file should have the same format as the input file.
Print an error message and exit with status code 3 if the command-line argument is not present.
Print an error message and exit with status code 4 if the file cannot be opened.
Querying the array
Define function query, which gets the memory address of an AIRPORT array and its length, then returns the greatest number of runways!

Formal parameter list
airports: the memory address of the array (type: AIRPORT * )
length: the length of the array (type: int)
Returned value
the greatest number of runways (type: int)

Calling the function
Call the function in function main(), passing the memory address of the array and its length.
Print the returned value to the standard output.
Sample execution
Command-line arguments: input.csv output.csv Standard output: 3

Contents of file input.csv:

Zurich Kloten;Zurich;3;360
London Heathrow;London;2;240
Istanbul Ataturk;Istambul;3;120
Barcelona El Prat;Barcelona;3;150
Content of file output.csv:

Zurich Kloten;Zurich;3;360
Barcelona El Prat;Barcelona;3;150
Istanbul Ataturk;Istambul;3;120
London Heathrow;London;2;240